heist Barney from BBC good food and here
I'm gonna be showing you how to take the
meat from a cooked lobster you need to
get yourself a few bits of equipment
before you start so I've got a bowl for
the shells I've also got a lobster pick
which is going to come in use for we're
trying to get the meat out of the shells
they can use a skewer but if you can get
one a lobster picks fantastic a pair of
scissors comes in handy a pair of
kitchen scissors is really handy and you
need something heavy like a rolling pin
or the back of a heavy kitchen knife so
first things first we need to remove the
claws from the main body now the easiest
way to do this is to pull the claws off
just at the bottom just where they join
the main body and you just want to twist
and they'll come out easily same on the
other side so just go there and then
we're just going to remove the legs and
I'll show you what's do the legs later
[Music]
now as you're working it's a good idea
to have lots of kitchen roller hand as
it is quite a juicy job you get quite a
lot of lobster juice on your board you
don't it pouring everywhere so next
thing we need to do is we need to twist
the tail away from the head this is
really easy you just need to twist the
tail in one direction and then the head
in the other and that will just come off
in one
there's your lobster tail and then she
loves the head now in the head I'm just
going to open it there is something
called tamale or tomley this is the
lobsters liver it's absolutely delicious
it's full of flavor some people put it
through dressings or three sources but
it's not to everyone's taste it's not
the classic white meaty bits of lobster
that used it so that's just going to go
into our bowl so we've got our tail meat
we've got our small legs we've got a
claws so I'm just going to talk you
through the claws you want to remove the
two sections underneath the claw off
first and again you just snap them off
and the second one just snaps off like
so then ideally you want to keep their
gloomy as hold as possible so the
easiest way to do this is to get the
bottom section of the claw and you're
just going to pull it back and hopefully
it should come out containing some of
the feathery bone any meat like this you
just want to keep this is all delicious
expensive meat
and then using a rolling pin on the back
of the knife we're just going to crack
the lobster claw now you're not trying
to smash it you're just trying to crack
the shell so you can open it up and get
the lobster meat out hole so you just
want to tap it sharply but not really
heavily so then the other side
once you've cracked it should be as
simple as just peeling shell away and
then the lobster claws should come out
hole like so with the pieces of floor
that go underneath the other sections
it's just a matter of getting our
lobster pit and then just picking the
meat out like this so it just comes out
whole we get that lovely now get whole
nugget of meat there and again the other
section so just repeat the process with
the other claw so and then again keep
inside the bottom pincer this comes off
and then give her a tap
[Music]
that guy's and huh just pull the me out
all that
[Music]
just pick the meat up I should come out
in one section just Winkle it out there
we go and again next I'm going to show
you my little trick for dealing with the
legs you get a rolling pin you get your
lobster leg and then you simply roll
like so and then this is something
that's normally thrown away just get a
lovely piece of lobster meat like that
and I'll show you one more time lobster
leg rolling pin just round lobsters an
expensive thing to buy it's worth
keeping absolutely every little bit of
it on to the tail lobster tail you can
crack it in two like so and then pull it
apart but actually the easiest way of
getting pot holding the tail meat is to
open the lobster tail upside down in
your hands and then just get a pair of
kitchen scissors and then just to go
down one side and then go down the other
side and then hold the tails just come
out in one piece
[Music]
so so there's your whole lobster tail
now if you're going to cut this into
chunks it's a digestive tract running
through the middle bit like the black
vein that you get in the inner prawn now
the easiest way to deal with that cut it
in half straight down the middle
get your lobster pick and then we're
just going to pull out the vein you want
to throw that away and there is your
lobster meat which can be trimmed up and
left whole is a half tail or cut into
chunks that is all there really is to it
that's how easy it is to prepare a
lobster the shells make an absolutely
vicious stop which you can use for a
soup or you can make a result out of
them or delicious in sauces so don't
throw them away and they freeze really
well so you can freeze them now and make
the stock later now it is a little bit
tricky but it's really worth the effort
and as you can see it doesn't take that
long and you get the shells for the
delicious stock and that's how you
prepare a lobster
you